#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section*
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Abstract
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align block
Oceans are still largely inaccessible to humans and man-made devices, however,
 there is an increasing need for sustained, persisted and affordable presence
 that helps to understand and monitor amounts 96% of the Earth’s living
 space.
 Marine robotics as an innovative approach for exploration the Oceans and
 ocean floor, but also as a link to existing systems (floats, drifters,
 cabled networks), represents an emerging field MARUM and the University
 of Bremen have been covering over the past decades, and is planning to
 do so even more rigorously in the future.
 Since very much knowledge and huge amounts of data are gained in marine
 sciences, it is important to connect robotic systems to that advancement
 in knowledge.
 In order to exploit these technologically high developed systems, e.g.
 for interactive science, video streaming, monitoring and long-term observations
, it is mandatory that they are taught how to interact.
 This thesis is concerned with the interaction between an AUV (autonomous
 underwater vehicle) and the marine environment.
 The objective was to simulate a seagoing mission where the system needs
 to have knowledge to point and identify objects and annotate them by intertwini
ng the disciplines of geosciences and artificial intelligence.
 By using the cloud-based knowledge service called Open-EASE it's possible
 to process and reason about activity as well as understand robots behavior.
 it is possible for such a system to identify objects of various characteristics
 in real time.
 In this work I limited the objects to rocks, animals and seagrass and kept
 the focus on their detection.
 One of the main software frameworks for robot software development is the
 Robot Operating System (ROS) that is hosting the underwater simulator (UWSim).
 It includes ROS messages to process the robots sensor signals and stores
 the found values in a file beside the geo location.
 During mission execution all robot sensors and activity data are recorded
 as an episodic memory and can be queried in Open-EASE afterwards.
 By using a modeling software, the scenery is produced as well as high quality
 render images of the scene to clarify subjects within this thesis.
 The simulated area is a geo location near the eastern coast of Australia
 and the robot is supposed to identify objects and recognize borders of
 seagrass meadows.
 Since the growth of the meadows represent a result of influences, they
 are used to indicate changes in the environment with the robot as an automated
 scientist who is looking for the cause.
 The work is held most generic and the key results attest that the same
 approach could be used in areas of seepage and methane hydrates, sediment
 coverage versus precious poly metallic deposits, or artifacts (pipelines,
 other construction) versus natural underground.
 
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
