#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Acknowledgments
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
I want to thank my family and all my friends who helped me during the time
 of this work.
 Especialy I want to thank my loving wife Anna who whitstand with me during
 this time.
 Thank you for being such a great support and the light of my life.
 Also I want to thank my Parents who always gave me feedback whenever I
 needed it and helped in every possible way.
 I really appreciate all the hopes that also my parents in law set in me
 and I am thankful for all their wishes.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
A very big thanks goes to my mentor Fereshta Yazdani, who was always able
 to take care of the many problems I had during this time and the many questions
 I came up with.
 ROS, Open-EASE, programming - No matter how big the problem was, Fereshta
 was always able to help me.
 Thank you Fereshta for beeing such a great mentor.
 Another thanks goes to my brother Jan Winkler, who helped me with the understan
ding of OpenCV and semantic recording as well as to get an access to ROS.
 Also a big help for me was the staff of the Institute for Artificial Intelligen
ce of Daniel Beßler and Asil Kaan Bozcuoglu, who helped me whenever I had
 questions regarding Open-EASE and ROS.
 Thank you Jan-Hendrik Worch, for being a big help in the OpenCV Part.
 I also appreciate the help of Venkatachalam 
\color black
Srinivasan with the automated control of the robot and for becoming a good
 friend in this time.
 Speaking of friends, I also want to thank Sebastian Koralewski and Mark
 Niehaus for always providing thought-provoking impulses.
 Also very important to mention are Axel Welter, Marco Tack, Julia Gallas,
 Avrinder Babu Sandhu and Awais Saeed, who are always a very good company
 for me and always come up with many brilliant ideas.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
I appreciate the support of all of you and can not thank you enough for
 being such a great support.
 Thank you all for making this possible.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
