#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Benthic Habitat Mapping
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align block

\color black
Benthic Habitat mapping started around 2007 with the REMUS AUVs mission
 to map eelgrass habitats in the Strait of Juan De Fuca in shallow waters
 of about 1 - 2 meters depth (mentioned in 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "33"

\end_inset

).
 They used a Multi-Spectral radiometer to distinguish the eelgrass from
 other habitat members.
 A few years earlier, in 2004, Kennish equipped the REMUS AUV with a high
 frequency Side Scan Sonar to map the estuarine environment of Great Bay,
 New Jersy, USA 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "40"

\end_inset

, which wasn't a habitat mapping but led to technical implementation to
 do so.
 They were facing water depths of 50cm to 10.5 meters and a tidal current
 of up to 2
\begin_inset Formula $\nicefrac{m}{s}$
\end_inset

 and were able to provide information about sediment characteristics like
 ripples, dunes and sand waves 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "40,33"

\end_inset

.
 Ruhl proved in 2013 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "56"

\end_inset

, that it is possible to map and monitor open shelf environments by using
 the Autosub6000.
 The mission contained the data production of a seabed environment, compare
 results with those, captured by a surface vessel and to produce a data
 set that serves as a baseline for future monitoring missions.
 As every mission, also this one faces problems of exact localization, the
 AUV had to surface between each of the three dives, to refresh GPS position.
 The Autosub6000 mission served as a prove of concept that habitat mapping
 is possible even with near-bottom currents and turbidity to classify the
 seabed.
 Wynn et al.
 mentioned in 2014 that Wheeler 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "55"

\end_inset

 revealed habitat damages of mounds due to bottom trawling.
 This shows a need of an autonomous monitoring system, not only for this
 site but also for others.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
The first mission of insights to a habitat performed with a color camera
 took place in 2012 to take a closer look at spatial distribution of deep-sea
 fauna at Porcupine Abyssal Plain in the north Atlantic 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "33"

\end_inset

.
 The interests of such a mission is to map and measure individual organisms,
 geological features and to estimate organic carbon coverage.
 For this purpose, the percentage cover was analyzed automatically.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
This is the connecting point to this approach as I am also working in shallow
 waters of ~3m depth with similar features as the Autosub6000 system and
 the Automated Benthic Explorer.
 As the Autosub6000 proved the concept to complete a survey and the REMUS
 completed an eelgrass mission, this work is going one step further by adding
 the artificial intelligence to the mapping purpose.
 I am also using a camera with optical features to scan the area, like the
 2007's mission in the Strait of Juan De Fuca.
 By using an algorithm to filter every occurring color, the individuals
 are identified.
 This is done by direct threshold.
 Most coverage in the literature about environments are given as a value
 of percentage and for this purpose, I developed a projection to count the
 seagrass coverage of a certain area by its occurrence beside the direct
 geo location which makes it possible to determine 
\begin_inset Formula $C_{org}$
\end_inset

 coverage.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
For movement the typical AUV path planning is used to turn the vehicle by
 reaching a specific GPS position.
 For that purpose I used the automated robot control, developed by Srinivasan
 in 2016 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "52"

\end_inset

.
 I adapt it to fit the needs to the simulation borders so the robot acts
 completely autonomous without direct human interaction.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
This thesis's approach extends the existing approaches of mapping and produces
 data based on robot knowledge so the discipline of artificial intelligence
 is also able to work with it.
 This makes it possible for both fields to interact with each other.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
