#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 3cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 3cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
\noindent

\color black
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align block

\color black
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset


\shape italic
No matter how far from the shore that you live, oceans still affect your
 life and the lives of your families and friends, classmates and colleagues.
 The air that you breathe, the water you drink, the food you eat, the products
 that keep you warm, safe, informed, and entertained — all can come from
 or be transported by the ocean.
\shape default

\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - 
\shape italic
\size small
Protect Planet Ocean (2016)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
By keeping this statement above in mind, it is necessary to take a look
 at how to protect one of the most valuable environments of planet earth.
 One option is to use modern technology like robots to collect data in environme
nt monitoring missions to determine possible hazards.
 Robots of this kind already exist and many marine disciplines are using
 AUVs but for other reasons than monitoring.
 Robots like AUVs are commonly used in geoscientific missions mostly for
 profiling or filming the seafloor 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "16"

\end_inset

 to take a video stream for the exploration of resources like poly metallic
 nodules and seafloor massive sulfides 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "17"

\end_inset

.
 Many institutes like MARUM, DFKI, Jacobs University and some private institutes
 are working on automated systems for these underwater tasks and their simulatio
n.
 This thesis is working on an own way of interaction between an AUV and
 the environment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block

\color black
The investigation of the seafloor and its habitats is mainly done by expensive
 explorations and will mostly be executed via ships.
 This means a lot of costs for universities and labor for the ships crew.
 The most expensive explorations take place in areas that can be hazardous
 for human beings and need a special trained crew.
 For keeping the risk at a low level, the dangerous areas are observed by
 Remotely Operated Vehicles (ROV) or Autonomous Underwater Vehicles (AUV).
 As useful as these systems are, they rarely can be found in less dangerous
 areas like shallow marine environments due to high costs but some projects
 tried to take first steps into that field because of their economic value.
 The shallow environments need to be observed because of different ecological
 reasons.
 The "Project Seagrass" provides first information about occurrence of seagrass
 in a scientific meaning which occurs in the area of green island near the
 Australian coast as well as near the coasts of Great Britain but in this
 work the area of Australia is of interest.
 Habitat monitoring is a field of growing interest but also stress analysis
 becomes more and more important also to the industries.
 This work will focus on combining the disciplines of marine geoscientific
 technologies of AUVs with the methods of artificial intelligence.
 The main point is to create an approach to improve the existing geoscientific
 methods of habitat monitoring by simulating an AUV that is able to scan
 an environment with optical sensors and to record the gained data in geoscienti
fic manner as well as in terms of artificial intelligence.
 While performing the mission, the entities given in teh environment are
 detected and stored in a hierarchically structure of semantic meaning.
 This enables to process the knowledge on the episodic memory (remembrance
 of a specific moment) of the robot to reason and understand its behavior.
 This makes it possible to reason for the robots findings and comprehend
 the robots behavior by extracting knowledge for humans.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
