#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 3cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
The methods in this work are reaching from the usually used geoscientific
 tools of GIS over Blender to the more robotic tools of a Robot simulator,
 hosted by ROS to the mainly used robotic web interface of Open-EASE, which
 is based on KnowRob, a knowledge base of robots.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Geo Information Systems are widely used in geoscience to show positions
 of working areas or to indicate a bigger picture of i.e.
 an event influencing its surrounding environment.
 Very good examples are geological maps or urban planning, based on GIS
 data (Google Maps, OpenStreetMap).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Blender is well known in the community of photorealistic 3D artists, who
 are rendering stills or animations.
 As it is a free, open source software, with a humongous community and many
 tutorials on the Internet, it is a very advantageous way to produce data
 for the robotic field.
 Many fields, especially outdoor environments, that need to be explored
 by robots, depend on predefined simulation tests to lower costs and minimize
 the risk of a mission fail.
 To provide a connection between the robotic tools and the geoscientific
 tools, Blender is used to interact with both sides, as it is able to read
 exported data from geo oriented fields and provide it as data that the
 robotic field is able to handle.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
The artificial intelligence in turn is working on a framework, that provide
 a wide range of possibilities when it comes to working with this gained
 data.
 The robotics side is providing a system to host the simulator while an
 intelligent recorder is producing knowledge that comes directly from the
 robots algorithms.
 This knowledge is accessable as epsodic memory within the cloud based web
 intercafe of Open-EASE, which rebuilds the environment as a semantic map
 whose information can be asked for in the interface.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
