#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Section
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Motivation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align block
The motivation to this work comes from the claim to extend the methods of
 geoscientific monitoring and observation of environments with the methods
 of the artificial intelligence.
 Robotic systems are already used to a certain extend in geoscientific fields
 like the offshore industries for example.
 This industry uses it to do tasks like maintenance, exploration and setup
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "45"

\end_inset

.
 The industries attempt to be eco-friendly but they influence the environment
 on the seafloor which takes them into the responsibility to monitor the
 affected area.
 To ensure this task on a reasonable level of costs, the traditional way
 of mapping and monitoring needs to use an advanced approach which has the
 potential to observe an environment over a long period of time and to notice
 and mark significant changes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
New technology brings opportunities for every field and so it is a chance
 for geoscientists to not only use parts of the robotics but also of the
 artificial intelligence.
 The needed database for storing the knowledge already exists and is used
 by other disciplines frequently.
 Unfortunately these database systems are rarely used by geoscientists or
 even associated with AUV robotic systems.
 Existing AUV simulators offer options to generate data which makes it possible
 to develop approaches for given cases.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
To access the knowledge about environment, tools are ready to use from the
 side of the artificial intelligence.
 One of the tools is Open-Ease, whose web client interface which access
 the database of robotic knowledge to present it to the user who can query
 the available data sets to understand robots behavior in the environment.
 Due to the fact that the robots knowledge is represented within a database,
 it is possible to widen it by additional knowledge from the geoscientific
 field.
 This enables admission not only for experts but also gives the opportunity
 to others to extract knowledge from an environment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
Many institutions are already working actively on topics concerning AUV
 controlling, exploration and monitoring.
 The DFKI (Deutsches Forschungszentrum für künstliche Intelligenz) is one
 of the leading German institutes that is working on projects like AVALON
 which is an autonomously driving AUV that is helping during maintenance
 tasks.
 Industrial applications for such a system for pipeline inspections is accomplis
hed by Prof.
 David Lane from Heriot-Watt University in Edinburgh, UK.
 Others, like the interactive and robotics systems lab of the university
 of Jaume, Spain, has developed a simulator for path planning and sensor
 communication tests 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "29"

\end_inset

.
 By cooperation with the university of Girona, the systems lab has developed
 
\shape italic
\size small
Underwater Simulator
\shape default
\size default
 (UWSim) which is directly integrated into the 
\shape italic
\size small
Robot Operating System
\shape default
\size default
 (ROS) to communicate with their developed AUVs 
\shape italic
\size small
Girona500
\shape default
\size default
 (G500) as well as 
\shape italic
\size small
Sparus II
\shape default
\size default
.
 The simulator is highly configurable and also allows the user to even implement
 real world physics that also includes current simulation and wave activity
 on the surface.
 It comes with many sensors like laser scanner, optical cameras, a stereo
 camera, range sensor and many others that allow a detailed seafloor scanning
 and makes it the optimal simulator for this work.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
This approach of work provides a possibility to use it as an autonomous
 scientist that might operate in long-term missions to monitor environments
 of high interest and scientific importance.
 The field of robotics is a very fast growing and very interesting field
 of work and as it is reaching more and more into daily life, its time to
 implement it even more into the field of nature science and find tasks
 that can be accomplished by autonomous systems.
 The main motivation of this research is to learn more about how robotic
 systems are able to use knowledge and transport it as artificial intelligence
 to the real world to interact with it.
 Also to evolve a simulated long-term mission with nature scientific approach
 to develop a connection between the disciplines of the artificial intelligence
 and geo science.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
