#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Producing and Transferring Knowledge 
\size footnotesize
(Open-EASE)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
(
\bar under
Open
\bar default
 Source 
\bar under
E
\bar default
veryday 
\bar under
A
\bar default
ctivity 
\bar under
S
\bar default
cience and 
\bar under
E
\bar default
ngineering) Open-Ease provides a web-based knowledge service to the robots
 experiences.
 The knowledge is stored semantically and represents an episodic memory
 of the robot.
 It is possible to reconstruct the complete interaction of the robot with
 the environment and store perception in a database that can be reached
 via internet or within the local network.
 If the robot is able to identify something on the seafloor, it will be
 stored within the database (MongoDB).
 This method combines cloud computing with big-data and can be used in the
 future to take a closer look on the seafloor by giving a robot the chance
 to store its knowledge within the database.
 It would give researchers the chance to have an automated researcher "right
 in the field" to obtain objects in the area.
 The robot is drawing experience in this field and other robots are able
 to learn from it as much as the robot learns itself.
 As robots are learning the same way as humans by investigating objects,
 they can store the gained information into cloud based databases.
 This gives the chance to other robots to look up these databases and profit
 from the knowledge.
 Open-EASE provides an interface for the user to ask queries to the system
 which is able to answer in terms of database entries and 3D visualization.
 A short example would be "where did you find rocks in the area?" And the
 robot would give an answer in ways like highlighting the spots where a
 rock are be found and can annotate them with speech bubbles.
 The User - Database interaction is done via browser as a so called "webrob".
 It is capable of action as a multi-user interface on different ports that
 will give each user a private place with transparency in knowledge and
 access to shared memories.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
As the Robot is performing its mission, the experiences need to be recorded.
 This is done by Semrec, that automatically coverts files in the Ontology
 Web Language (OWL) format and can be loaded into Open-EASE.
 It contains the time stamp with the experience and stores it into the mentioned
 OWL file.
 While doing so, the transformation data also needs to be recorded.
 This is done by the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

mongodb logger
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 which is able to record the transformation information from ROS topics
 so it produces an individual name for each time stamp and stores the transforma
tion data of the robot and the objects.
 This gives the opportunity to visualize the robot model with the experiences
 that are logged with Semrec and reproduce the complete mission with the
 robots experiences.
 This in combination with the semantic database is a complete knowledge
 with 3D visualization of the robots experience.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
