#LyX 2.2 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 508
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\float_placement H
\paperfontsize 12
\spacing onehalf
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2cm
\rightmargin 4cm
\bottommargin 2cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 2
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Subsection
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
Possible Use Cases
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\noindent
\align block
There are many opportunities to use this approach.
 One obvious case is to create and publish environment maps or data and
 if necessary to determine protected areas in which fishery is prohibited
 or anchorage might be forbidden.
 Furthermore, this approach is a chance for every land registry office to
 widen and expand their knowledge to the marine environment.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
Because plants are setting their roots into the sediment, they are solidifying
 the underground.
 This is an indirect act of coastal protection which can be important to
 highly populated coastal regions.
 The high environmental stress that is pushing onto the coastline is mainly
 associated with anthropogenic influence.
 Increasing population, rising temperatures and acidification of the oceans
 already influencing the coastal ecosystems.
 Extreme consequences would cause kelp forests to disappear in the south
 and marl environments to vanish in the north due to warming and acidification.
 The influx of nutrients into coastal areas leads to more productive biomass
 and a rise of hypo toxic events especially for estuary systems 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "46"

\end_inset

.
 To prevent or predict such events, a monitoring system is postulate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
Seagrass meadows occur on almost every shallow coastal line in the world
 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "24"

\end_inset

 and play a valuable role in these ecosystems 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "47"

\end_inset

.
 They are recycling nutrients, stabilize the sediment, provide habitat for
 survival and reproduction of vertebrate and invertebrate taxa and show
 a “nursery” function for some species 
\begin_inset CommandInset citation
LatexCommand cite
key "25"

\end_inset

.
 As entire estuaries are identified as nurseries to protect individuals
 from predators and to provide food, it deserves to be protected.
 Because these environments are almost omnipresent in coastal areas, the
 treatment of them is also interesting for decision makers of projects.
 By monitoring, these decision makers have another component to look at
 when it comes to calculation of long-term cost estimations.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\paragraph_spacing onehalf
\noindent
\align block
Not only seagrass is an important component to look at but the approach
 has its variability.
 It is important to change topics easily due to different interests components
 that are identified in this project, it is relatively easy to add or change
 the topics.
 This gives the opportunity to also use it in terms of exploration to identify
 resign oil, methane or to search for fields of gas hydrates.
 Beside the geoscientists it is also a chance for biologists to observe
 environments and engineers to test their algorithms.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
